evaluation/4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md, before:

# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria

## Mechanics

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description                | When was it achieved                              |
| --------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | Controls                   | [Cycle 3](../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md) |
| 2         | Attack controls            | [Cycle 6](../design-and-development/cycle-1-5.md) |
| 3         | Camera movement            | [Cycle 3](../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md) |
| 4         | Player Fighting Animations | Not Developed                                     |
| 5         | Player Movement Animations | Not Developed                                     |
| 6         | Power-ups                  | [Cycle 6](../design-and-development/cycle-1-5.md) |
| 7         | Enemies                    | [Cycle 5](../design-and-development/cycle-1-4.md) |

### Criterion 1

The controls were developed in a basic way using the arrow keys for the movement: left arrow for left, right arrow for right. The spacebar was also included for jumping which was need so it could be further developed into the combat.

### Criterion 2

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WT3bBDnDhDY&t=42s" %}

Attack controls were successfully added where the player would use the space bard to jump on top of the enemy to defeat them. The other option was to use the left click for punching the enemy. However, there were two reasons that made the idea of jumping on the enemy make more sense. Firstly, I liked the idea of having a twist from real boxing, this is because it gave a more retro video game feel which was the aim. Secondly, the development of punching and all of the animations that would have to go into it would take a longer time, therefore, due to time constraints it made more sense to go for the space-bar.

### Criterion 3

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2XcHmnbCc7o&t=3s" %}

From the video you can see that the camera is side-scrolling and follows the player. This was the plan and therefore this went successfully. There was no other plan for the camera as I had always wanted the side-scrolling camera. I always wanted it because I feel it fits the retro style of the game similar to the old Super-Mario.

### Criterion 4

This success criteria featured the player fighting animatuions.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-113: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

evaluation/4.1-evaluation-of-success-criteria.md, after:

# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria

## Mechanics

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description                | When was it achieved                              |
| --------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | Controls                   | [Cycle 3](../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md) |
| 2         | Attack controls            | [Cycle 6](../design-and-development/cycle-1-5.md) |
| 3         | Camera movement            | [Cycle 3](../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md) |
| 4         | Player Fighting Animations | Not Developed                                     |
| 5         | Player Movement Animations | Not Developed                                     |
| 6         | Power-ups                  | [Cycle 6](../design-and-development/cycle-1-5.md) |
| 7         | Enemies                    | [Cycle 5](../design-and-development/cycle-1-4.md) |

### Criterion 1

The controls were developed in a basic way using the arrow keys for the movement: left arrow for left, right arrow for right. The spacebar was also included for jumping which was need so it could be further developed into the combat.

### Criterion 2

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WT3bBDnDhDY&t=42s" %}

Attack controls were successfully added where the player would use the space bard to jump on top of the enemy to defeat them. The other option was to use the left click for punching the enemy. However, there were two reasons that made the idea of jumping on the enemy make more sense. Firstly, I liked the idea of having a twist from real boxing, this is because it gave a more retro video game feel which was the aim. Secondly, the development of punching and all of the animations that would have to go into it would take a longer time, therefore, due to time constraints it made more sense to go for the space-bar.

### Criterion 3

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2XcHmnbCc7o&t=3s" %}

From the video you can see that the camera is side-scrolling and follows the player. This was the plan and therefore this went successfully. There was no other plan for the camera as I had always wanted the side-scrolling camera. I always wanted it because I feel it fits the retro style of the game similar to the old Super-Mario.

### Criterion 4 - Not Met

This success criteria featured the player fighting animations. This would have been developed at the end of the development process. However, due to time constraints, I was unable to complete this criteria. It is a shame because adding these animations would have made the game feel more professional and it would have fitted perfectly to the retro style. The animations for fighting were planned in my mind, featuring a 2 frame animation, one frame for stand-still and one frame for arm-stretch out punching. As it turns out, that plan for the fighting animations would not have worked with the final product because of the jumping style combat which I preferred.
