# 4.1 Evaluation of Success Criteria

## Mechanics

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description                | When was it achieved                              |
| --------- | -------------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 1         | Controls                   | [Cycle 3](../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md) |
| 2         | Attack controls            | [Cycle 6](../design-and-development/cycle-1-5.md) |
| 3         | Camera movement            | [Cycle 3](../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md) |
| 4         | Player Fighting Animations | Not Developed                                     |
| 5         | Player Movement Animations | Not Developed                                     |
| 6         | Power-ups                  | [Cycle 6](../design-and-development/cycle-1-5.md) |
| 7         | Enemies                    | [Cycle 5](../design-and-development/cycle-1-4.md) |

### Criterion 1

The controls were developed in a basic way using the arrow keys for the movement: left arrow for left, right arrow for right. The spacebar was also included for jumping which was needed so it could be further developed into combat.

### Criterion 2

Attack controls were successfully added where the player would use the space bar to jump on top of the enemy to defeat them. The other option was to use the left click to punch the enemy. However, there were two reasons that made the idea of jumping on the enemy make more sense. Firstly, I liked the idea of having a twist from real boxing, this is because it gave a more retro video game feel which was the aim. Secondly, the development of punching and all of the animations that would have to go into it would take a longer time, therefore, due to time constraints it made more sense to go for the space bar.

### Criterion 3

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2XcHmnbCc7o&t=3s" %}

From the video, you can see that the camera is side-scrolling and follows the player. This was the plan and therefore this went successfully. There was no other plan for the camera as I had always wanted the side-scrolling camera. I always wanted it because I feel it fits the retro style of the game similar to the old Super Mario.

### Criterion 4 - Not Met

This success criteria featured the player-fighting animations. This would have been developed at the end of the development process. However, due to time constraints, I was unable to complete this criteria. It is a shame because adding these animations would have made the game feel more professional and it would have fitted perfectly to the retro style. The animations for fighting were planned in my mind, featuring a 2 frame animation, one frame for stand-still and one frame for arm-stretch-out punching. As it turns out, that plan for the fighting animations would not have worked with the final product because of the jumping style combat which I preferred.

### Criterion 5 - Not Met

Similar to the fighting animations, it would have been really good to have these animations in the game as it would have made the game suit the retro style even better. The movement animations would have been a sequence of frames for the player and the enemy characters to cycle through as they ran. However, due to time constraints, and as this was a low priority for the development of my game, I did not meet the criteria. However, this would definitely be added to the development in the future.

### Criterion 6

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=69uoAqzMwGE" %}

The water bottle power-up was coded, designed, and spawned in just how it was envisioned. This was a great success. The video shows that the player picks up the water bottle and it increases the player's hitbox to make it easier to defeat the enemy. This is exactly how it was described in the success criteria.

### Criterion 7

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9KbVUXQlnAI" %}

[Success criteria](../analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md) for enemies (Reference number 7): "Enemies will be in separate boxing rings that attempt to defeat the player. When the player enters the ring, the enemy will patrol their boxing ring. If the enemy collides with the player, the game will end. Enemies will not have the ability to jump so that they cannot leave the boxing ring. This means that the player will only be fighting the enemy inside of the boxing ring."

The video shows that the success criteria are correct for the movement aspect. However, in my success criteria for enemys I mention that "If the enemy collides with the player, the game will end." however this is not how the final result ended up. This is because during development I realised that it was a mistake to add this because there was a health bar system implemented.

As you can see from this video from cycle 7, the health bar development made the success criteria incorrect.

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NqaY7LWF050" %}

## User Interface

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description           | When was it achieved                              |
| --------- | --------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 8         | Scoring/Timer         | Half Developed                                    |
| 9         | Menu                  | Not Developed                                     |
| 10        | Health Bar            | [Cycle 7](../design-and-development/cycle-1-6.md) |
| 11        | A timer on the HUD    | Not Developed                                     |
| 12        | Final Boss health bar | Not Developed                                     |
| 13        | Menu Theme            | Not Developed                                     |

### Criterion 8

The scoring and timer plan ended up being different to the final product. Firstly, the original plan was to have a timer for players to attempt to beat their personal record. This would have been a great incentive for the players to play my game even more. Secondly, the scoring has been developed to be a win record that displays at the top left of the screen after the player defeats an enemy. Therefore, I consider this criterion to be half developed. For the future development of this game, I would prioritise a timing system, this is because it would be the best way to incentivise players to play the game more. Furthermore, it would allow for the future competitiveness of the game were players would compete against each other to get the fastest time and as a result, an ambitious aim of Esports for the game could be an option.

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=69uoAqzMwGE&embeds_referring_euri=https%3A%2F%2Fcdn.iframe.ly%2F&source_ve_path=MjM4NTE&feature=emb_title" %}

### Criterion 9

This criteria was not achieved as it links to criterion 8 and both were considered low priorities. The menu was planned so that it would have "play" and "exit" buttons. It would have also included the players time records which was not yet developed. To be honest, this criterion would have been developed if I had more skills for making a menu, I really liked the idea of having a menu at the start of the game or an option to pause mid game. However, due to a lack of skill, this was not developed and I prioritised other things such as the win-record.

### Criterion 10

This criteria was developed very well and stuck to the plan apart from one small change. In my success criteria I stated that I wanted the health bar to be at the top middle of the screen. However, after developing the health bar, it made more sense to me for it to be stuck above the player as the player traversed the levels.

### Criterion 11

Similar to criterion 8, the timer that would have been on the HUD was not developed as a result of time constraints as it was a low priority, and a lack of skills.

## Levels and Layout

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description | When was it achieved                                                                                                                                    |
| --------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 14        | Game Layout | [Cycle 2](../design-and-development/cycle-1-1.md), [Cycle 4](../design-and-development/cycle-1-3.md), [Cycle 8](../design-and-development/cycle-1-7.md) |
| 15        | Difficultly | [Cycle 7](../design-and-development/cycle-1-6.md)                                                                                                       |

## Design and Graphics

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description            | When was it achieved                              |
| --------- | ---------------------- | ------------------------------------------------- |
| 16        | Background             | [Cycle 3](../design-and-development/cycle-1-2.md) |
| 17        | Graphics               | [Cycle 8](../design-and-development/cycle-1-7.md) |
| 18        | Character Design       | [Cycle 8](../design-and-development/cycle-1-7.md) |
| 19        | Game Completion Design | [Cycle 8](../design-and-development/cycle-1-7.md) |

## Non-functional

### Criteria

| Criterion | Description             | When was it achieved |
| --------- | ----------------------- | -------------------- |
| 20        | FPS rate                | 3.1                  |
| 21        | PEGI rating             | 3.1                  |
| 22        | Runnable on web browser | 3.1                  |
