# 4.3 Maintenance and Future Development

## Current Limitations of Project

* Accessibility - The game requires a keyboard to play which limits the amount of players that it can have. This is limited to PCs and laptops only unless players were to go out of their way to plug a keyboard into a console.
* Gameplay length - At the moment there are only 5 levels in total. 4 levels against the normal enemy and a single boss fight level. I received feedback to have more levels before the boss fight and before the opportunity to become champion. This is because, in real-life boxing, fighters take more than 4 fights to get a shot at becoming champion. This would be developed in future.
* Graphics - The graphics include retro art for all the characters, the boxing belt, and the water bottle, which is great. However, the map floor is a plain grey colour and so is the background. This will definitely be developed in the future.
* Incentive - There is a small incentive to carry on playing after the first few plays which is the difficulty, and the desire to get the highest win record possible in the game which is 5 wins and 0 losses. However, the desired timing system was not developed this is a big limitation of the game because that would have been a great incentive to keep playing.
* Productivity - At the moment there would be only one person developing and maintaining the game. This means that there would be problems with more players and if there were to be any undetected bugs/errors during testing which definitely can happen.

## Maintenance

Maintaining my game would involve two distinct phases: the first one being short-term maintenance and the second being long-term maintenance. A choice would have to be made between these two phases and it would depend on the size/popularity of the game and future development plans.

For the short-term option, my main focus would be on immediate concerns. This would include addressing the known bugs that the game has like the enemy changing patrol direction mid-journey from one side of the ring to the other. The primary goal would be to ensure that every feature works perfectly. Additionally,  whilst avoiding major changes to the game's main aspects, future development would work on making minor adjustments to enhance the user experience. For example, the development of the originally desired menu system or adding the timer system. Moreover, I would tackle any additional issues that may crop up in the future.

As for long-term maintenance, it would have a more strategic approach. I would plan to implement changes that would lead to a better gaming experience when the product is released for all gamers to access. This would include developing more levels for the game duration to increase, and a more developed boss fight to enhance the user's enjoyment and engagement over time. The long-term maintenance strategy would focus on continuously improving the game's quality while also making it more competitive and appealing to a wider audience.

## Future Development

### Short Term Bug Fixes

* Enemy patrol function - The enemies still sometimes change their direction mid-way through their patrol to the other side of the boxing ring. However, I would argue that this makes the combat harder from the player's perspective but it is not coded for that to happen so this would need to be sorted.
* Player falling through the map floor - There was a very uncommon yet strange bug where the player would fall through the map floor when the game was put under a lot of stress. Although this only happens when put under lots of stress, it can still happen. This would be a necessary bug fix, especially for players with weaker computers.&#x20;

### Long Term Addressing Limitations

* Accessibility - Future development to allow gamers who use either console or mobile devices to play. Either by developing a mobile app version or enabling the use of controllers. The controller would require a development of the controls where the movement controls can be switched to allow both keyboards and controllers. The controller would either feature the D-pad for movement or the joysticks.
* Gameplay length - There would be an increased amount of levels before the boss fight. Somewhere between 10-15 normal enemy fights which would lead to the final boss fight which would be developed where the boss spawns a second health bar, deals more damage, and takes more hits to be defeated. Furthermore, there would be a pause menu option so that there is a chance to pause or save mid-way through the game.
* Graphics - Development of the background would be important. The implementation of a crowd in a boxing arena for a background would add a lot to the professionalism and increase player engagement. Furthermore, the map floor and boxing ring would be more developed to fit the retro boxing theme.
* Incentive - The development of the timing system for players to attempt to beat their personal best times of defeating all the normal enemies and become champion by defeating the boss. This would increase the incentive for players to keep playing the game, and it would also increase enjoyment. Moreover, the development of a timing system could eventually lead to Esports for my game where the competitiveness would increase as players would compete for the fastest time, for example.
* Productivity - In the future, there would have to be a team developing and maintaining the game, all specialised in different sectors for improved efficiency. Furthermore, a development team would definitely be needed as a result of an increased player base and even Esports if it were to happen.
