analysis/1.2-stakeholders.md, before:

# 1.2 Stakeholders

## Customer Role

Now we know from [1.1](1.1-problem-identification.md), the industry of computer games is very financially successful, and that the popular 2D platformer games still see 10+ thousand concurrent players daily. It is important to capitalise on that fact by having a good understanding of the Target Audience and what the players would want to get out of playing my game. First I researched the age groups that play video games in [1.1](1.1-problem-identification.md) to give an understanding of the overall audience for a computer game. However, I then researched the age groups that are more interested in the genre of 2D platformers. ([Clement, J, 2021](../reference-list.md)) Shows that the majority of gamers across all genres is 16-24 year olds.   But we already know that the 2D platformer genre sees more gamers of the age 25+, therefore the focus for my game would be to entertain grownups rather than teenagers.



### PEGI Ratings

(Clement, J, 2021) Shows that the majority of gamers across all genres is 16-24 year olds.   But we already know that the 2D platformer genre sees more gamers of the age 25+, therefore the focus for my game would be to entertain grownups rather than teenagers.

## Demographics

Commit message:

GITBOOK-14: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.2-stakeholders.md, after:

# 1.2 Stakeholders

## Customer Role and Demographics

Now we know from [1.1](1.1-problem-identification.md), the industry of computer games is very financially successful, and that the popular 2D platformer games still see 10+ thousand concurrent players daily. It is important to capitalise on that fact by understanding the Target Audience and what the players would want to get out of playing my game. First I researched the age groups that play 2D platformer games in [1.1](1.1-problem-identification.md) to give an understanding of the audience for the genre. We now know that the 2D platformer genre sees more gamers of the age 25+, therefore the focus for my game would be to entertain grownups rather than teenagers. ([Clement, J, 2021](../reference-list.md)) Shows that the majority of gamers across all genres are 16-24-year-olds.



<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/gamers ages.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>% of ages that play computer games</p></figcaption></figure>

To further capitalise on the extremely profitable market, it is important to know where my customers are from. This way, I can set the theme of my game to suit perfectly to the target audience. ([Newzoo, n.d.](../reference-list.md)) states that China holds the top spot for the most gamers and has gained an incredible "$45.8 Billion" total revenue. However, looking at second place, the United States has an even better player-to-revenue ratio. This is because it has a very similar total revenue with 535M fewer players. Japan in 3rd also has a solid ratio too. This research proves that the best theme to go for would be something that interests all 3 of these nations.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/gamer nation graph.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

### PEGI Ratings

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/pegi ratings.png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Offical PEGI Ratings</p></figcaption></figure>

PEGI ratings are crucial during the creation of a computer game because they inform consumers about the content and its age-appropriateness of it. PEGI, (Pan European Game Information), is a standardised rating system that is used in all of Europe to allow consumers to know the suitability of computer games for different age groups. The PEGI rating includes different factors such as violence, sexual content, language, and drug use to determine the suitable age rating of the game. As shown from the image, the ratings range from ages 3 (suitable for everyone) to 18 (only for adults)

It is important for game developers to consider PEGI ratings because they can affect the game's sales and reputation. A game with a higher age rating may be less appealing to parents when picking a game for their children, but more appealing to adults. By considering PEGI ratings during the development process, game developers can ensure that their game is appropriate for the intended audience and avoid potential problems down the line. That is why it is crucial for me to be considerate of PEGI ratings when finalising my target audience. If I am successful, it will help me to build a positive relationship between myself, the game developer, and my audience, as consumers will appreciate the effort to provide them with clear and accurate information about the content of my game.

Now with this information and the previous information from [1.1](1.1-problem-identification.md) in that 2D platformers see more use from 25+ year-olds, I can theoretically use any theme imaginable with any PEGI rating. This can let my imagination run wild.

An idea that strikes me first would include features from Super Mario, Street Fighter, and themes from the sport of Boxing. This, I feel, will tie in all of my research and will be suitable for my target audience of 25+-year-olds from nations across the world but specifically China, USA and Japan.
