analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md, before:

# 1.3 Research the Problem

## Existing Solution 1 (of 3 or 4)

Images are nice here...

### Overview

Some description of this existing solution

### Aspect 1 (of 2-4 aspects per solution?)

A more detailed description of some aspect of this solution

### Features

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Features I will Include" %}
| Feature              | Justification                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| -------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description     | Some reason it's a good fit in this project                                                 |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Features I won't Include" %}
| Feature              | Justification                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| -------------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Feature description | Reason it's beyond the scope/not suitable for this project |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

Commit message:

GITBOOK-15: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.3-research-the-problem.md, after:

# 1.3 Research

## Super Mario Bros.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/nintendo-super-mario-platform-gaming-india.png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

### Overview

The original Super Mario game, released in 1985 for the Nintendo Entertainment System (NES), is widely regarded as one of the most influential video games of all time. The gameplay consists of side-scrolling levels where the player controls Mario as he runs, jumps, and avoids obstacles while collecting coins and power-ups. The game also features a memorable soundtrack and colourful graphics that have become iconic.

### Controls

Updated versions of the game allow for it to be played on any console including PC. Controls while using a keyboard include arrow keys used for movement (left and right to move, up to jump, and down to crouch). The Z key may be used for running or jumping, and the X key or spacebar for attacking or throwing fireballs (if the player has the corresponding power-up). If using a controller, the game's controls are simple and intuitive, with the directional pad used for movement, the A button for jumping, and the B button for shooting fireballs.&#x20;

### Story Line

The game follows the adventures of Mario, an Italian plumber, who has to rescue Princess Peach from the evil Bowser, the king of the Koopas. When Mario hears of the Kidnapping, he has to journey through 8 different worlds and their various obstacles, to reach Bowser's castle and defeat him. As mentioned before, along the way, Mario collects coins, power-ups, and other helpful items to aid him in his quest.

### Features

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Features I will Include" %}
| Feature       | Justification                                                                                                                               |
| ------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Controls      | I like the simple and easy-to-understand controls used in Mario. The arrow keys with an extra key for powerups.                             |
| One Character | I prefer single-player aspects to a game. This makes the plot far simpler and more fundamental                                              |
| Enemies       | I will have 1 enemy per page/slide that the player is currently on.                                                                         |
| Graphics      | I like the pixelated graphics giving it a retro feel. I feel it would suit my game for its theme.                                           |
| Background    | The subtle background touches that Mario has with bushes, pipes, etc. I like these features. However, I would change them to suit my theme. |
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Features I will not include" %}
| Feature | Justification                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| ------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Finale  | In the example screenshot for the original Mario, the ending includes a flag pole that the player has to get as high as possible on. I would rather have a final boss that is the same theme as the other enemies but is stronger and harder to defeat. |
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}
