analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md, before:

# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics

### Controls

For my game I will be using the W,A,S,D keys for up, left, right, and down movement. This is because it feels the most comfortable position for gamers hands on the keyboards. Furthermore, these controls are the most common across PC games ([Wikipedia, 2021](../reference-list.md)). Therefore, it will be the most natural feel for new players of my game. For my players to punch, the left click will be used. This is for similar reasons in that it is the most commonly used key for "attacks" amongst different games.

### Player Movement

I will have my players begin on the left side of my side-scrolling map. The camera will follow the player traverse the map while defeating enemies. There will be platforms that the player will have to jump onto to get powerups. I would like for my character to have movement particles when punching, jumping and running. Just simple ones like dust/wind particles. However due to time constraints, I may run out of time to add them. As mentioned in [1.3](1.3-research-the-problem.md),  my character will have punch animations like the original Street Fighter, a retro style with 2 different frames involved: a standstill frame, and a arm stretch out punch frame.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image (1) (1).png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Street Fighter Punch Animation</p></figcaption></figure>

### Power-ups

My game will feature power-ups that get picked up by the player and spawn on raised platforms for the player to jump to. I will have 2 different power-ups in my game; one will be water bottles that give health to the player when picked up, this is because the enemies will do damage to the player if they hit them, the second power-up will be boxing gloves on the floor, and when picked up, they will give more strength to the player for a period of time.

## Enemies

### Movement

My game is a side-scroller, so technically, all of the enemies will be active at the same time. However, I aim for my player to only have to face 1 enemies at a time, similar to the sport of boxing. To do this, I will limit the amount of distance the enemy can travel to less than the width of one full screen. To do this, the enemies will not have the ability to jump, then they will spawn within boxing ring ropes.

In the picture below, the player is repesented as the figure on the left, the enemy is represented as the figure on the right. Once the player jumps into the ring and defeats the enemy, they will jump over the other side of the ring and progress to the next one.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image (2).png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Example of full enemy format</p></figcaption></figure>

### Attack

The enemies will have the same punch animations as the player and will move towards the player to do the punch.&#x20;

## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.

Commit message:

GITBOOK-24: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md, after:

# 1.4a Features of Proposed Solution

## Mechanics

### Controls

For my game I will be using the W,A,S,D keys for up, left, right, and down movement. This is because it feels the most comfortable position for gamers hands on the keyboards. Furthermore, these controls are the most common across PC games ([Wikipedia, 2021](../reference-list.md)). Therefore, it will be the most natural feel for new players of my game. For my players to punch, the left click will be used. This is for similar reasons in that it is the most commonly used key for "attacks" amongst different games.

### Player Movement

I will have my players begin on the left side of my side-scrolling map. The camera will follow the player traverse the map while defeating enemies. There will be platforms that the player will have to jump onto to get powerups. I would like for my character to have movement particles when punching, jumping and running. Just simple ones like dust/wind particles. However due to time constraints, I may run out of time to add them. As mentioned in [1.3](1.3-research-the-problem.md),  my character will have punch animations like the original Street Fighter, a retro style with 2 different frames involved: a standstill frame, and a arm stretch out punch frame.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image (1) (1).png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Street Fighter Punch Animation</p></figcaption></figure>

### Power-ups

My game will feature power-ups that get picked up by the player and spawn on raised platforms for the player to jump to. I will have 2 different power-ups in my game; one will be water bottles that give health to the player when picked up, this is because the enemies will do damage to the player if they hit them, the second power-up will be boxing gloves on the floor, and when picked up, they will give more strength to the player for a period of time.

## Enemies

### Movement

My game will be side-scroller, so technically, all of the enemies will be active at the same time. However, I aim for my player to only have to face 1 enemies at a time, similar to the sport of boxing. To do this, I will limit the amount of distance the enemy can travel to less than the width of one full screen. To do this, the enemies will not have the ability to jump, then they will spawn within boxing ring ropes.

In the picture below, the player is represented as the figure on the left, the enemy is represented as the figure on the right. Once the player jumps into the ring and defeats the enemy, they will jump over the other side of the ring and progress to the next one.

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image (2).png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Example of full enemy format</p></figcaption></figure>

### Attack

The enemies will have the same punch animations as the player and will move towards the player to do the punch. If the enemy connects with the player, a third of the players health bar will be removed. However, the enemies will only require 1 hit to be defeated. If the enemy and the player have the same attack rate, it will be hard for the player to make a hit and avoid getting hit at the same time. This may become complicated to achieve, however, I will have the player's character have a faster attack rate than the enemy.

As for the boss, it will deal more damage and have a lot more health. The boss will 1-2 hit the player and will require multiple hits to be defeated.

## UX/UI

### Menu

I will have a very simple game menu with the buttons for "Play" and "Exit" this is because I do not want any confusion nor for it to be too complicated. The background of the menu will be boxing themed, but only if I have the time as it is not very crucial for my game. Here is a simple example of what I will have:

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image (3).png" alt=""><figcaption><p>Simple Example Menu</p></figcaption></figure>

However, underneath the "EXIT" button, I plan to have a score system; it will be a game were the aim is to first finish the game, then to do it as fast as possible, similar to a lap time in any racing game. The players "Best time" will be displayed.

## Limitations

### Limitation 1

Description of a limitation, due to scope/time constraints or difficulty of implementation.
