analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md, before:

# 1.5 Success Criteria

### Broad Category 1

| Ref. No. | Criterion   | Justification                                                                                                                                                       | Reference |
| -------- | ----------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| 1        | Description | <ul><li><a href="https://github.com/Marling-School/alevel-project-template/blob/docs/1-analysis/features-of-the-proposed-solution.md">link to feature</a></li></ul> |           |

```
                                                                 |
```

### Non-functional

These are features which are not descriptions of functionality. They are more like suitability, such as age rating appropriateness, or performance of algorithms/response times for UI etc.

| Ref. No. | Criterion | Justification                                                  | Reference |
| -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| 21       |           | <ul><li><a href="1.2-stakeholders.md">Stakholder</a></li></ul> |           |

Commit message:

GITBOOK-34: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

analysis/1.5-success-criteria.md, after:

# 1.5 Success Criteria

### Mechanics

| Ref. No. | Criterion                       | Justification                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                               | Reference                                                                                                            |
| -------- | ------------------------------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1        | Controls                        | I want the simple and easy-to-use keybinds that most gamers are already fimiliar with. These are WASD for the movement.                                                                                                                                                                                     | <ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls">Controls</a></li></ul>               |
| 2        | Attack Controls                 | My game will include the left click on the mouse to be used for punching the enemies. This will be boxing-style punching to fit my theme.                                                                                                                                                                   | <ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls">Controls</a></li></ul>               |
| 3        | Player Movement/Camera Movement | The player will move the character starting from one side of the platform map to the other. The screen will be fixed to the player (parallax) and will follow wherever the player moves.                                                                                                                    | <ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#player-movement">Player Movement</a></li></ul> |
| 4        | Player Fighting                 | My character will have punching animations that have 2 frame sequences. Like mentioned in [1.4a](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md): a standstill frame, and an arm stretched out frame                                                                                                             | <ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#player-movement">Player Movement</a></li></ul> |
| 5        | Player Animation                | My desire is for my character to exhibit movement particles while executing actions such as punching, jumping, and running. These particles should be basic, such as dust or wind particles.                                                                                                                | <ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#player-movement">Player Movement</a></li></ul> |
| 6        | Power-ups                       | 2 different power-ups that are picked up by the player when walked on. These will include; a water bottle which will replenish the players health if damaged by enemies, and boxing gloves which allow for the player to deal more damage per hit.                                                          | <ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#power-ups">Power-ups</a></li></ul>             |
| 7        | Enemies                         | Enemies will be in seperate boxing rings that atempt to defeat the player. When the player enters the ring, the enemy will walk towards the player and hit.                                                                                                                                                 | <ul><li>Enemies: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#movement">Movement</a></li></ul>                 |
| 8        | Scoring/Timer                   | The aim of the game is to defeat different boxers to reach the title fight which is the final boss. Once the player does this once, I want an incentive for the player to do it over and over again. To do this, I aim for a timing system so the player can attempt to get new personal records each time. | <ul><li>User Interface: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#menu">Menu</a></li></ul>                  |
| 9        | Menu                            | As mentioned in [1.4a](1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md), I will have a simple game menu that displays the option to "Play or "Exit. Additionally, the menu will include the players current record time.                                                                                          | <ul><li>User Interface: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#menu">Menu</a></li></ul>                  |

### Non-functional

These are features which are not descriptions of functionality. They are more like suitability, such as age rating appropriateness, or performance of algorithms/response times for UI etc.

| Ref. No. | Criterion | Justification                                                  | Reference |
| -------- | --------- | -------------------------------------------------------------- | --------- |
| 21       |           | <ul><li><a href="1.2-stakeholders.md">Stakholder</a></li></ul> |           |
