# 1.5 Success Criteria

### Mechanics

<table><thead><tr><th width="109">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th width="345">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td>Controls</td><td>I want the simple and easy-to-use key-binds that most gamers are already familiar with. These are the arrow keys for the movement. </td><td><ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls">Controls</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td>Attack Controls</td><td>The attack controls for my game will depend on the type of combat that I go with. This means that it will either be using the left click on the mouse to hit the opponent, or the player will have to jump on top of the enemy to defeat them using the space-bar.</td><td><ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#controls">Controls</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td>Player Movement/ Camera Movement</td><td>The player will move the character starting from one side of the platform map to the other. The screen will be fixed to the player (parallax) and will follow wherever the player moves.</td><td><ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#player-movement">Player Movement</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td>Player Fighting</td><td>My character will have to punch animations that have 2 frame sequences. Like mentioned in <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md">1.4a</a>: a standstill frame and an arm stretched-out frame. This however will be done at a later stage and will therefore depend on if there is time to add it.</td><td><ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#player-movement">Player Movement</a></li><li>Research: <a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#street-fighter">Street Fighter</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>5</td><td>Player Animation</td><td>My desire is for my character to exhibit movement particles while executing actions such as punching, jumping, and running. These particles should be basic, such as dust or wind particles. Again, this feature will have low priority and will be a nice addition at the end.</td><td><ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#player-movement">Player Movement</a></li><li>Research: <a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#street-fighter">Street Fighter</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>6</td><td>Power-ups</td><td>There will be a power-up that the player will pick up. This power-up will be in the form of a water bottle, and it will increase the size of the player. This will therefore make it easier to defeat the enemy. Especially if the combat involves the player having to jump on top of the enemy to defeat it.</td><td><ul><li>Mechanics: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#power-ups">Power-ups</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>7</td><td>Enemies</td><td>Enemies will be in separate boxing rings that attempt to defeat the player. When the player enters the ring, the enemy will patrol their boxing ring. If the enemy collides with the player, the game will end. Enemies will not have the ability to jump so that they cannot leave the boxing ring. This means that the player will only be fighting the enemy inside of the boxing ring.</td><td><ul><li>Enemies: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#movement">Movement</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>8</td><td>Scoring/Timer</td><td>The aim of the game is to defeat different boxers to reach the title fight which is the final boss. Once the player does this once, I want an incentive for the player to do it over and over again. To do this, I hope for a timing system so the player can attempt to get new personal records each time. This however will have a low priority and will be completed if there is time at the end.</td><td><ul><li>User Interface: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#menu">Menu</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>9</td><td>Menu</td><td>As mentioned in <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md">1.4a</a>, I will have a simple game menu that displays the option to 'Play' or 'Exit'. Additionally, the menu will include the players current record time.</td><td><ul><li>User Interface: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#menu">Menu</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>10</td><td>Health bar</td><td>I hope to have time to give the character a health bar on the top of the screen. This will show the player that they need to be cautious with their opponent.</td><td><ul><li>User Interface: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#hud">HUD</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>11</td><td>A timer on the HUD</td><td>There will be a timer on the screen for players to compare their current run to their record. However, this detail will have a lower priority.</td><td><ul><li>User Interface: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#hud">HUD</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>12</td><td>Final Boss health bar</td><td>The final boss will show an extra health bar when the boss appears on screen.</td><td><ul><li>User Interface: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#hud">HUD</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>13</td><td>Menu Theme</td><td>I aim for a simple theme, to add to the overall retro feel of the game.</td><td><ul><li>User Interface: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#menu">Menu</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>14</td><td>Game-Layout</td><td>Similar to mentioned in <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md">1.4a</a>, the player's starting point will be the left side of the screen, where they will spawn on a platform designed with a boxing arena theme. Their objective is to travel towards the right side of the screen and confront the ultimate boxing boss. However, before reaching the final showdown, the player will have to engage in battles with various opponents in different boxing rings. To enter each ring, the player must jump over the ropes and engage in one-on-one combat with their adversary. Along the way, the player can collect power-ups that will assist them in their quest to become the boxing world champion.</td><td><ul><li>User Interface: <a href="1.4a-features-of-the-proposed-solution.md#level-design">Level Design</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>15</td><td>Difficulty</td><td>The game will not be too difficult to complete. The normal enemies will take 1 punches to defeat, and the Boss will take multiple. The enemies themselves will do damage to the player and it will take 3 hits to defeat the player.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>16</td><td>Background</td><td>There will be some background touches to suit the theme of a boxing ring. This includes crowds, fake sponsor banners, and random gloves/boxing equipment. This detail, however, will have a low priority.</td><td><ul><li>Research: <a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#super-mario-bros.">Super Mario Bros.</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>17</td><td>Graphics</td><td>The graphics will be pixelated giving it a retro feel. This will add to the nostalgic feeling for players.</td><td><ul><li>Research: <a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#super-mario-bros.">Super Mario Bros.</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>18</td><td>Character Design</td><td>I want my characters to be boxers in a retro pixelated style. Similar to the game Broforce.</td><td><ul><li>Research: <a href="1.3-research-the-problem.md#broforce">Broforce</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>19</td><td>Game Completion Design</td><td>I will develop a boxing themed graphic that is displayed when the player completes the game. This will cover the entire screen and will include the phrase:  "And New!"</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Non-functional

<table><thead><tr><th width="108">Ref. No.</th><th>Criterion</th><th width="404">Justification</th><th>Reference</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>20</td><td>FPS rate</td><td>Minimum of 15-20 FPS. I intend for the possibility of it being this low as the style is pixelated with a retro feel. 20fps is still smooth and will allow players to have that nostalgic and entertaining experience that I aim for.</td><td></td></tr><tr><td>21</td><td>PEGI rating</td><td>I want my game to have a low PEGI rating of about 3. Although my research shows that the sport of boxing and the player-base of platformers sees the use of 16+ year-olds, I do not aim for any gore/drugs etc. Therefore, a PEGI rating of 3 will allow for more players to enjoy my game.</td><td><ul><li><a href="1.2-stakeholders.md#pegi-ratings">PEGI Ratings</a></li></ul></td></tr><tr><td>22</td><td>Runnable on a web browser</td><td>I intend for my game to require very little to run it. Therefore, I want my game to be able to run on a web browser.</td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

