design-and-development/cycle-1-6.md, before:

# 2.2.7 Cycle 7

### Design

In this cycle, combat will be developed, a health bar will be added and the enemies/player will do damage. Additionally, the final boss will be developed so that it has more health is harder to defeat and does more damage.

### Objectives

* [x] Enemy combat
* [x] Healthbar
* [x] Final boss completion

### Usability Features

Non-functional aspects: Enemies that move in a way that is not too hard to defeat but is also not too easy for players.

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

```
Initialize playerHealth to 100
Create a red baseHealth rectangle at position (0, 0) with dimensions 100x10
Create a green healthBar rectangle at position (10, 0) with initial width based on playerHealth

Define an event handler for the player's "update" event:
  Position baseHealth and healthBar relative to the player's position
  Update healthBar's width to match playerHealth
  If playerHealth is less than or equal to 0, transition to the "lose" scene

Create an enemy rectangle with dimensions 32x32 at position (125, 125)

Define collision behavior for the player with objects tagged as "enemy":
  Reduce playerHealth by 35
  Ensure playerHealth is not less than 0
  Update healthBar's width to reflect the updated playerHealth
  If playerHealth is less than 1, transition to the "lose" scene

Destroy the baseHealth rectangle

```

## Development

### Outcome



```javascript
let playerHealth = 100;
let baseHealth = add([
  rect(100, 10),
  pos(0, 0),
  color(1, 0, 0),
]);
let healthBar = add([
  rect(playerHealth, 10),
  pos(10, 0),
  color(0, 1, 0),
]);
player.on("update", () => {
  
  baseHealth.pos = player.pos.add(-50, -160);
  healthBar.pos = baseHealth.pos;

  
  healthBar.width = playerHealth;
  
  if (playerHealth <= 0) {
    go("lose");
  }
});
let enemy = add([rect(32, 32), pos(125, 125), "enemy"]);

player.onCollide("enemy", () => {
  playerHealth -= 35;
  
  if (playerHealth < 0) playerHealth = 0;
  healthBar.width = playerHealth; 
  if (playerHealth < 1) {
    go("lose");
  }
});

destroy(baseHealth);
```



```javascript
```



```javascript
```



```javascript
```

### Challenges



## Testing

Evidence for testing

### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="87">Test</th><th width="127">Instructions</th><th width="223">What I expect</th><th width="208">What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NqaY7LWF050" %}

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image (17).png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>

Commit message:

GITBOOK-106: change request with no subject merged in GitBook

design-and-development/cycle-1-6.md, after:

# 2.2.7 Cycle 7

### Design

In this cycle, combat will be developed, a health bar will be added and the enemies/player will do damage. Additionally, the final boss will be developed so that it has more health is harder to defeat and does more damage.

### Objectives

* [x] Enemy combat
* [x] Healthbar
* [x] Final boss completion

### Usability Features

Non-functional aspects: Enemies that move in a way that is not too hard to defeat but is also not too easy for players.

### Key Variables

| Variable Name | Use |
| ------------- | --- |
|               |     |
|               |     |
|               |     |

### Pseudocode

```
Initialize playerHealth to 100
Create a red baseHealth rectangle at position (0, 0) with dimensions 100x10
Create a green healthBar rectangle at position (10, 0) with initial width based on playerHealth

Define an event handler for the player's "update" event:
  Position baseHealth and healthBar relative to the player's position
  Update healthBar's width to match playerHealth
  If playerHealth is less than or equal to 0, transition to the "lose" scene

Create an enemy rectangle with dimensions 32x32 at position (125, 125)

Define collision behavior for the player with objects tagged as "enemy":
  Reduce playerHealth by 35
  Ensure playerHealth is not less than 0
  Update healthBar's width to reflect the updated playerHealth
  If playerHealth is less than 1, transition to the "lose" scene

Destroy the baseHealth rectangle

```

## Development

### Outcome



```javascript
let playerHealth = 100;
let baseHealth = add([
  rect(100, 10),
  pos(0, 0),
  color(1, 0, 0),
]);
let healthBar = add([
  rect(playerHealth, 10),
  pos(10, 0),
  color(0, 1, 0),
]);
player.on("update", () => {
  
  baseHealth.pos = player.pos.add(-50, -160);
  healthBar.pos = baseHealth.pos;

  
  healthBar.width = playerHealth;
  
  if (playerHealth <= 0) {
    go("lose");
  }
});
let enemy = add([rect(32, 32), pos(125, 125), "enemy"]);

player.onCollide("enemy", () => {
  playerHealth -= 35;
  
  if (playerHealth < 0) playerHealth = 0;
  healthBar.width = playerHealth; 
  if (playerHealth < 1) {
    go("lose");
  }
});

destroy(baseHealth);
```













### Challenges

The main challenge that I have faced during the development of the combat is the player taking damage when defeating the enemy. What I mean by that is when the player jumps and lands on the enemy, it is meant to just defeat the enemy and not do any damage to the player. Instead, when the player jumps onto the enemy, the player takes damage.

It took a while to find a fix and to change the code to prevent it for happening. In the end, the only solution that I found was to just add the same amount of health lost back. As a result, the player loses 35 health and gains it right back, all in the same collision. This fix worked well as there is no delay between losing and gaining the health, so you cannot see the health bar changing during that collision.

Another challenge that I faced during this cycle was that there was a white box that spawned just above the players spawn on each of the levels. It is definitely to do with the health bar code because after testing, it disappears when I take out the health bar code. I would say this was a bigger challenge because it took a very long time to find a fix.

## Testing



### Tests

<table><thead><tr><th width="87">Test</th><th width="127">Instructions</th><th width="223">What I expect</th><th width="208">What actually happens</th><th>Pass/Fail</th></tr></thead><tbody><tr><td>1</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>2</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>3</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr><tr><td>4</td><td></td><td></td><td></td><td></td></tr></tbody></table>

### Evidence

{% embed url="https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=NqaY7LWF050" %}

<figure><img src="../.gitbook/assets/image (17).png" alt=""><figcaption></figcaption></figure>
